OSDOCS-9350-deepdive-3: endpointPublishingStrategy updates (#80110)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-ingress-controller-nodeportservice-projects.adoc

.Prerequisites

* You installed the {oc-first}.
* Logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* You created a wildcard DNS record.
// https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/networking/ingress-controller-dnsmgt.html (does not detail how to create the DNS)

.Procedure

. Create a custom resource (CR) file for the Ingress Controller:
+
.Example of a CR file that defines information for the Ingress Controller
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
  kind: IngressController
  metadata:
    name: custom-ic3 <1>
    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  spec:
    replicas: 1
    domain: my-custom-ic.ipi-cluster.example.com <2>
    nodePlacement:
            nodeSelector:
              matchLabels:
                ingresscontroller: "custom-ic3" <3>
    namespaceSelector:
     matchLabels:
       ic: custom-ic3 <4>
    endpointPublishingStrategy:
      type: NodePortService 
kind: List
metadata:
  resourceVersion: ""
  selfLink: ""
# ...
----
<1> Specify the `name` with a name for the `IngressController` object.
<2> Specify the `domain` for the wilcard DNS record.

> <3> Specify the label for the `ingresscontroller` CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Specify the label for the `ingresscontroller` CR to designate which node it gets deployed on
```

Author: Thanks. How about:

> Specify the label for the Ingress Controller CR that you want to deploy on nodes running in your cluster.

<4> Matches routes from any namespaces with this label.

. Add a label to a node by using the `oc label node` command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label node <node_name> ingresscontroller=<ingress_controller_custom_resource>
----

> . Create the `Pod` object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the `IngressController ` object:
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc create -f <pod_object_name>.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc create -f <ingresscontroller>.yaml
```
This is the file where the Ingress Controller yaml went.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----

> . Locate the hostname by running the `oc get svc` command against the `openshift-ingress` namespace. The hostname of the load balancer is the `EXTERNAL-IP` associated with the `router-default` service in the `openshift-ingress` namespace.

Reviewer: I don't know what this means?  I think what we want to say is:
`Note the port for the service created for this ingresscontroller.  In this case it's 32432. `

Author: Thanks. Was the service created automatically at the same time as the IngressController object?

[source,bash]
----
$ oc get svc -n openshift-ingress
NAME                        TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                     AGE

> router-internal-custom-ic   ClusterIP   172.30.177.55    <none>        80/TCP,443/TCP,1936/TCP                     155m

Reviewer: I would remove this line.  You can expect to see the ingresscontroller you just created and the default one but this one, from a different example in my doc, just confuses things.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

router-internal-default     ClusterIP   172.30.195.74    <none>        80/TCP,443/TCP,1936/TCP                     223d

> router-nodeport-custom-ic   NodePort    172.30.109.219   <none>        80:32432/TCP,443:31366/TCP,1936:30499/TCP   155m

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----

. Use the `oc new-project` command to create a new project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project <ingress_controller_name>
----

. Enter the following command to label the additional Ingress Controller:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc label namespace <ingress_controller_name> ic=<ingress_controller_name>

Reviewer: FYI this needs to match:
    namespaceSelector:
     matchLabels:
       ic: custom-ic3 
So the command is:
` oc label namespace custom-ic2 ic=custom-ic2`

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----

. WHAT does this do?
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-app --image=quay.io/openshifttest/hello-openshift:multiarch
----

. Set the domain for the Ingress Controller hostname:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc expose svc/hello-openshift --hostname=hello-openshift.<domain_name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc expose svc/hello-openshift --hostname=hello-openshift.custom-ic3.<domain_name>
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----

. Update the `IngressController` CR to exclude the namespace for the Ingress Controller from the default Ingress Controller:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch --type=merge -n openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontroller/default --patch '{"spec":{"namespaceSelector":{"matchExpressions":[{"key":"ic","operator":"NotIn","values":["<ingress_controller_name>","custom-ic2","custom-ic3"]}]}}}'
----

.Verification

. Verify that the wildcard DNS record is managed by the Ingress Controller. A successful connection means that your cluster can use IP addresses from external DNS servers for DNS resolution.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ curl hello-openshift.<ingress_controller_name>.<domain_name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl hello-openshift.custom-ic3.<domain_name>:32432
```

Author: We'll need to discuss using an actual example versus <user_replaced> values where the latter would be better from a docs perspective to help maintainability and prevent any customer feedback that might happen from time to time.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/nw-configuring-ingress-controller-endpoint-publishing-strategy.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-ingress-controller-nodeportservice-projects_{context}"]
= Adding a single NodePort service to an Ingress Controller

> Instead of creating a `NodePort`-type `Service` for each project, you can create a single service and apply it to all of your projects. You can configure this type of environment by setting your Ingress Controller to use the `NodePortService` endpoint publishing strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of creating a `NodePort`-type `Service` for each project, you can create an Ingress Controller to use the `NodePortService` endpoint publishing strategy.
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> Consider this configuration for your Ingress Controller when you want to apply a set of routes, through Ingress sharding, to a node even if the node gets displaced. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider this configuration for your Ingress Controller when you want to apply a set of routes, through Ingress sharding, to nodes that may already have a HostNetwork Ingress Controller because there will not be any port conflicts.  
```

Before you `NodePort`-type `Service` for each project, read the following considerations:

* You must create a wildcard DNS record for the Ingress Controller.

> * You must create a route service and specify the hostname of your Ingress Controller in this service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must create a route service and specify the hostname of your Ingress Controller in this service.
```
```suggestion
* You must expose a route for your service specify the --hostname of your Ingress Controller domain 
```

> * You must create a route service and specify the hostname of your Ingress Controller in this service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must expose a route for your service and specify the --hostname of your Ingress Controller domain 
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * must preserve the non-default port in the curl in order to access, for example: curl <route>:<port> // what does this mean?

Author: What does this line mean? Can one do this with a curl command? Curl usually just fetches information?

Reviewer: For context - here is what the curl command looks like. You have to use the nodeport of the svc for this ingress controller:
```
[root@openshift-jumpserver-0 ~]# oc get svc/router-nodeport-nodeportsvc -n openshift-ingress
NAME                          TYPE       CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                     AGE
router-nodeport-nodeportsvc   NodePort   172.30.128.82   <none>        80:32136/TCP,443:30999/TCP,1936:31257/TCP   90d
[root@openshift-jumpserver-0 ~]# oc get route
NAME              HOST/PORT                                             PATH   SERVICES          PORT       TERMINATION   WILDCARD
hello-openshift   hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com          hello-openshift   8080-tcp                 None
[root@openshift-jumpserver-0 ~]# curl hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com:32136
Hello OpenShift!

```

Author: Updated to state "You must use the `curl` command to transfer data to the `NodePort`-type `Service` in the Ingress Controller." An example can be in the actual procedure.

* Ensure that Ingress Controller routes can access your {product-title} cluster through the host IP address assigned to each node.

.Prerequisites

* You installed the {oc-first}.
* Logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* You created a wildcard DNS record.

> // https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/networking/ingress-controller-dnsmgt.html (does not detail how to create the DNS)

Author: I cannot find decent doc examples of creating such a record. Maybe it's too trivial to document this level of detail?

Reviewer: wildcard DNS is described here in the Routes row: https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7024856.  I don't know of anywhere we say more than that.  It's on the admins to know this stuff.  FYI in a coredns file, a wildcard looks like this:

*.apps.cluster.example.com.   IN     A        192.168.123.11

Author: Thanks. Linking to KBase articles is a bit of an issue as they're maintainence-level can vary.

.Procedure

. Create a custom resource (CR) file for the Ingress Controller:
+
.Example of a CR file that defines information for the Ingress Controller
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
  kind: IngressController
  metadata:

>     name: custom-ic3 <1>

Author: For items marked <1> to <4> can I replace the values with something the user needs to replace. For example:

* custom-ic3 = <ingress_controller_name>

Reviewer: each one of these parameter is described in the table at https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.16/html/networking/configuring-ingress#nw-ingress-controller-configuration-parameters_configuring-ingress.  The values in the .yaml file are valid as is.  In this case these are are things I made up:
1) name: custom-ic3 
2) domain:  my-custom-ic.ipi-cluster.example.com
3) ingresscontroller: custom-ic3 (nodePlacement label)
4) ic: custom-ic3 (namespaceSelector label)

Author: I replaced these values with user-variables but took info from the source table you linked. to describe the parameters.

    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  spec:
    replicas: 1
    domain: my-custom-ic.ipi-cluster.example.com <2>
    nodePlacement:
            nodeSelector:
              matchLabels:
                ingresscontroller: "custom-ic3" <3>
    namespaceSelector:
     matchLabels:
       ic: custom-ic3 <4>
    endpointPublishingStrategy:
      type: NodePortService 
kind: List
metadata:
  resourceVersion: ""
  selfLink: ""
# ...
----
<1> Specify the `name` with a name for the `IngressController` object.
<2> Specify the `domain` for the wilcard DNS record.
<3> Specify the label for the `ingresscontroller` CR.
<4> Matches routes from any namespaces with this label.

> . Add a label to a node by using the `oc label node` command:

Author: All these commands are needed?

Reviewer: Yes, in this case the command would be: 
` oc label node openshift-worker-0 ingresscontroller=custom-ic3`
FYI this needs to match the matchLabels in:
    nodePlacement:
            nodeSelector:
              matchLabels:
                ingresscontroller: "custom-ic3"

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

router-internal-default     ClusterIP   172.30.195.74    <none>        80/TCP,443/TCP,1936/TCP                     223d
router-nodeport-custom-ic3   NodePort    172.30.109.219   <none>        80:32432/TCP,443:31366/TCP,1936:30499/TCP   155m
----

. Use the `oc new-project` command to create a new project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project <ingress_controller_name>
----

. Enter the following command to label the additional Ingress Controller:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace <ingress_controller_name> ic=<ingress_controller_name> <1>
----
<1> Where `<ingress_controller_name>` must match the value that you specified in the `namespaceSelector` section of your Ingress Controller CR.

. WHAT does this do?
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-app --image=quay.io/openshifttest/hello-openshift:multiarch
----

. Set the domain for the Ingress Controller hostname:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc expose svc/hello-openshift --hostname=hello-openshift.<ingress_controller_name>.<domain_name>
----

. Update the `IngressController` CR to exclude the namespace for the Ingress Controller from the default Ingress Controller:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc patch --type=merge -n openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontroller/default --patch '{"spec":{"namespaceSelector":{"matchExpressions":[{"key":"ic","operator":"NotIn","values":["<ingress_controller_name>","custom-ic2","custom-ic3"]}]}}}'

Author: Update to:

> oc patch --type=merge -n openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontroller/default --patch '{"spec":{"namespaceSelector":{"matchExpressions":[{"key":"ic","operator":"NotIn","values":["custom-ic3]}]}}}'

* You must expose a route for your service and specify the `--hostname` argument for your custom Ingress Controller domain.
* Ensure that all Ingress Controller routes can access your {product-title} cluster through the host IP address assigned to each node.
* You must use the `curl` command to transfer data to the `NodePort`-type `Service` in the custom Ingress Controller.

.Prerequisites

* You installed the {oc-first}.
* Logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* You created a wildcard DNS record.
// https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/networking/ingress-controller-dnsmgt.html (does not detail how to create the DNS)

.Procedure

. Create a custom resource (CR) file for the Ingress Controller:
+
.Example of a CR file that defines information for the `IngressController` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
  kind: IngressController
  metadata:
    name: <custom_name> <1>
    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  spec:
    replicas: 1
    domain: <domain> <2>
    nodePlacement:
      nodeSelector:
        matchLabels:

>           ingresscontroller: <custom_name> <3>

Reviewer: note: I used "ingresscontroller" here as the label key but you get to chose what the whole label pair is.  So I could have called it this:
ic:  <custom_name>
just like with the namespaceSelector.  So essentially:
<key>: <value.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

    namespaceSelector:
     matchLabels:
       ic: <custom_name> <3>
    endpointPublishingStrategy:
      type: NodePortService 
kind: List
metadata:
  resourceVersion: ""
  selfLink: ""
# ...
----
<1> Specify the a custom `name` for the `IngressController` CR.
<2> The DNS name that the Ingress Controller services.
<3> Specify the label for a set of namespaces.

. Add a label to a node by using the `oc label node` command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc label node <node_name> ingresscontroller=<ingress_controller_custom_resource> <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc label node <node_name> <key>=<ingress_controller_custom_resource> <1>
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----

> <1> Where `<ingress_controller_custom_resource>` must match the value that you specified in the `nodePlacement` section of your `IngressController` CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Where `<ingress_controller_custom_resource>` must match the key/value that you specified in the `nodePlacement` section of your `IngressController` CR.
```

. Create the `IngressController` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <ingress_controller_cr>.yaml
----

. Find the port for the service that was created for the `IngressController` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get svc -n openshift-ingress
----
+
.Example output that shows port `80:32432/TCP` for the `router-nodeport-custom-ic3` service
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                        TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                     AGE
router-internal-default     ClusterIP   172.30.195.74    <none>        80/TCP,443/TCP,1936/TCP                     223d
router-nodeport-custom-ic3   NodePort    172.30.109.219   <none>        80:32432/TCP,443:31366/TCP,1936:30499/TCP   155m
----

. Use the `oc new-project` command to create a new project:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc new-project <ingress_controller_name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc new-project <project_name>
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----

> . Enter the following command to label the additional Ingress Controller:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enter the following command to label the new namespace:
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc label namespace <ingress_controller_name> ic=<ingress_controller_name> <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc label namespace <project_name> <key>=<value> <1>
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----

> <1> Where `<ingress_controller_name>` must match the value that you specified in the `namespaceSelector` section of your Ingress Controller CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Where `<key>=<value>` must match the value that you specified in the `namespaceSelector` section of your Ingress Controller CR.
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

. Create a new application in your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc new-app --image=quay.io/openshifttest/<service_name>:multiarch

Reviewer: we could go two ways with this:
```suggestion
$ oc new-app --image=<image name>
```
OR use a real example:
```suggestion
$ oc new-app --image=quay.io/openshifttest/hello-openshift:multiarch
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----

. Create a `Route` object for a service, so that the pod can use the service to expose the application external to the cluster.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc expose svc/<service_name> --hostname=<custom_name>.<ingress_controller_name>.<domain_name> <1>

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----
+
[NOTE]
====
You must specify the hostname and domain of your custom Ingress Controller in the `--hostname` argument. If you do not do this, the Ingress Operator uses the default Ingress Controller to serve all the routes for your cluster. 
====

. Update the `IngressController` CR to prevent the default Ingress Controller from managing the `NodePort`-type `Service`. The default Ingress Controller will continue to monitor all other cluster traffic.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc patch --type=merge -n openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontroller/default --patch '{"spec":{"namespaceSelector":{"matchExpressions":[{"key":"ic","operator":"NotIn","values":["<custom_name>]}]}}}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc patch --type=merge -n openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontroller/default --patch '{"spec":{"namespaceSelector":{"matchExpressions":[{"key":"<key>","operator":"NotIn","values":["<custom_name>]}]}}}'
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----

.Verification

. Verify that the wildcard DNS record is managed by the Ingress Controller. A successful connection means that your cluster can use IP addresses from external DNS servers for DNS resolution.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ curl <service_name>.<ingress_controller_name>.<domain_name>:<port> <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl <project_name>.<ingress_controller_name>.<domain_name>:<port> <1>
```

Reviewer: so that's one way we could do it, but that's not what customers do.  A customer would do this:
`# oc get route
NAME              HOST/PORT                                             PATH   SERVICES          PORT       TERMINATION   WILDCARD
hello-openshift   hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com          hello-openshift   8080-tcp                 None
oc curl hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com:<port>
`

Reviewer: note that "hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com" is the HOST/PORT from the route results

Author: Removed:

````
$ curl <service_name>.<project_name>.<domain_name>:<port> <1>

<1> Where `<project_name>` must match the value that you specified in the `namespaceSelector` section of your custom Ingress Controller CR. For example, `openshift-service.custom-ic3.ipi-cluster.example.com:32432`.
````

----

> <1> Where `<ingress_controller_name>` must match the value that you specified in the `namespaceSelector` section of your custom Ingress Controller CR. For example, `openshift-service.custom-ic3.ipi-cluster.example.com:32432`.

Reviewer: this line isn't necessary as long as we explain the changes I have after line 138

Author: I removed the <1> line but kept the curl command. Please let me know if this is OK.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/nw-configuring-ingress-controller-endpoint-publishing-strategy.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-ingress-controller-nodeportservice-projects_{context}"]
= Adding a single NodePort service to an Ingress Controller

Instead of creating a `NodePort`-type `Service` for each project, you can create a custom Ingress Controller to use the `NodePortService` endpoint publishing strategy. To prevent port conflicts, consider this configuration for your Ingress Controller when you want to apply a set of routes, through Ingress sharding, to nodes that might already have a `HostNetwork` Ingress Controller.  

Before you set a `NodePort`-type `Service` for each project, read the following considerations:

> * You must create a wildcard DNS record for the Ingress Controller. For more information about the required DNS records for routes, see "User-provisioned DNS requirements".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must create a wildcard DNS record for the Nodeport Ingress Controller domain. A Nodeport ingress controller route can be reach from the address of a worker node.  For more information about the required DNS records for routes, see "User-provisioned DNS requirements".
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* You must expose a route for your service and specify the `--hostname` argument for your custom Ingress Controller domain.

> * Ensure that all Ingress Controller routes can access your {product-title} cluster through the host IP address assigned to each node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~
* Ensure that all Ingress Controller routes can access your {product-title} cluster through the host IP address assigned to each node.
~~
```

Reviewer: I would leave this line out.  It is now incorporated with my suggestion in the DNS record.

Author: Removed:

> * Ensure that all Ingress Controller routes can access your {product-title} cluster through the host IP address assigned to each node.

> * You must use the `curl` command to transfer data to the `NodePort`-type `Service` in the custom Ingress Controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must append the the port assigned to the `NodePort`-type `Service` in the route in order to access application pods. 
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

.Prerequisites

* You installed the {oc-first}.
* Logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* You created a wildcard DNS record.
// https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/networking/ingress-controller-dnsmgt.html (does not detail how to create the DNS)

.Procedure

. Create a custom resource (CR) file for the Ingress Controller:
+
.Example of a CR file that defines information for the `IngressController` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
  kind: IngressController
  metadata:
    name: <custom_name> <1>
    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  spec:
    replicas: 1
    domain: <domain> <2>
    nodePlacement:
      nodeSelector:
        matchLabels:
          <key>: <value> <3>
    namespaceSelector:
     matchLabels:

>        <key>: <value> <3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       <key>: <value> <4>
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

    endpointPublishingStrategy:
      type: NodePortService 
kind: List
metadata:
  resourceVersion: ""
  selfLink: ""
# ...
----
<1> Specify the a custom `name` for the `IngressController` CR.

> <2> The DNS name that the Ingress Controller services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The DNS name that the Ingress Controller services.
<3> Specify the label for a node to host this ingress controller 
```

Reviewer: the above is okay the way it is.

> <3> Specify the label for a set of namespaces. Substitute `<key>:<value>` with a map of key-value pairs where `<key>` is a unique name for the new label and `<value>` is its value. For example: `ingresscontroller: custom-ic`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Specify the label for a set of namespaces. Substitute `<key>:<value>` with a map of key-value pairs where `<key>` is a unique name for the new label and `<value>` is its value. For example: `ingresscontroller: custom-ic`.
```

Author: Callout text for <3> and <4> is duplicated. Is this OK?

Reviewer: The only change here is that the 2nd #3 become #4

. Add a label to a node by using the `oc label node` command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc label node <node_name> <key>=<ingress_controller_custom_resource> <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc label node <node_name> <key>=<value> <1>
```

Reviewer: I think simply saying "value" is simpler and matches what we did for namespace labels below

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

router-internal-default     ClusterIP   172.30.195.74    <none>        80/TCP,443/TCP,1936/TCP                     223d
router-nodeport-custom-ic3   NodePort    172.30.109.219   <none>        80:32432/TCP,443:31366/TCP,1936:30499/TCP   155m
----

. Use the `oc new-project` command to create a new project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project <project_name>
----

. Enter the following command to label the new namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace <project_name> <key>=<value> <1>
----
<1> Where `<key>=<value>` must match the value that you specified in the `namespaceSelector` section of your Ingress Controller CR.

. Create a new application in your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-app --image=<image_name> <1>
----
<1> An example of `<image_name>` is `quay.io/openshifttest/hello-openshift:multiarch`.

. Create a `Route` object for a service, so that the pod can use the service to expose the application external to the cluster.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc expose svc/<service_name> --hostname=<svc_name>.<project_name>.<domain_name> <1>
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> You must specify the hostname and domain of your custom Ingress Controller in the `--hostname` argument. If you do not do this, the Ingress Operator uses the default Ingress Controller to serve all the routes for your cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must specify the domain name of your custom Ingress Controller in the `--hostname` argument. If you do not do this, the Ingress Operator uses the default Ingress Controller to serve all the routes for your cluster. 
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

====

> 

Reviewer: Make sure that the status of the route is "Admitted" and that it matches the ingress controller (host) you just created:
[root@openshift-jumpserver-0 ~]# oc get  route/hello-openshift -o json | jq '.status.ingress' 
[
   { 
      "conditions": [
         { 
           "lastTransitionTime": "2024-05-17T18:25:41Z", 
           "status": "True", 
           "type": "Admitted"
         } 
       ], 
       "host": "hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com", 
       "routerCanonicalHostname": "router-nodeportsvc.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com", 
       "routerName": "nodeportsvc", "wildcardPolicy": "None" 
   }
]

Author: Added, but please check the output example syntax.

> . Update the `IngressController` CR to prevent the default Ingress Controller from managing the `NodePort`-type `Service`. The default Ingress Controller will continue to monitor all other cluster traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Update the default `IngressController` CR to prevent the default Ingress Controller from managing the `NodePort`-type `Service`. The default Ingress Controller will continue to monitor all other cluster traffic.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc patch --type=merge -n openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontroller/default --patch '{"spec":{"namespaceSelector":{"matchExpressions":[{"key":"<key>","operator":"NotIn","values":["<custom_name>]}]}}}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc patch --type=merge -n openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontroller/default --patch '{"spec":{"namespaceSelector":{"matchExpressions":[{"key":"<key>","operator":"NotIn","values":["<value>]}]}}}'
```

Reviewer: I like sticking with simply 'value' for the key/value pair names

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

Before you set a `NodePort`-type `Service` for each project, read the following considerations:

* You must create a wildcard DNS record for the Nodeport Ingress Controller domain. A Nodeport Ingress Controller route can be reached from the address of a worker node. For more information about the required DNS records for routes, see "User-provisioned DNS requirements".
* You must expose a route for your service and specify the `--hostname` argument for your custom Ingress Controller domain.
* You must append the port that is assigned to the `NodePort`-type `Service` in the route so that you can access application pods. 

.Prerequisites

* You installed the {oc-first}.
* Logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* You created a wildcard DNS record.
// https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/networking/ingress-controller-dnsmgt.html (does not detail how to create the DNS)

.Procedure

. Create a custom resource (CR) file for the Ingress Controller:
+
.Example of a CR file that defines information for the `IngressController` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
  kind: IngressController
  metadata:

>     name: <custom_name> <1>

Reviewer 2: <custom_ic_name> is better

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  spec:
    replicas: 1

>     domain: <domain> <2>

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

    nodePlacement:
      nodeSelector:
        matchLabels:
          <key>: <value> <3>
    namespaceSelector:
     matchLabels:
       <key>: <value> <4>
    endpointPublishingStrategy:
      type: NodePortService 
kind: List
metadata:
  resourceVersion: ""
  selfLink: ""
# ...

> ----

Reviewer 2: We just create one custom ingresscontroller here so better not use `kind: List`, this part can be updated as
```
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: <custom_name> <1>
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 1
  domain: <domain> <2>
  nodePlacement:
    nodeSelector:
      matchLabels:
        <key>: <value> <3>
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      <key>: <value> <4>
  endpointPublishingStrategy:
    type: NodePortService
```

<1> Specify the a custom `name` for the `IngressController` CR.

> <2> The DNS name that the Ingress Controller services.

Reviewer 2: Considering the context that we mentioned the route `hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com` in following doc, I think we should give the example value here to make it more readable. e.g.
```
<2> The DNS name that the Ingress Controller services. Suppose the default ingresscontroller domain is `apps.ipi-cluster.example.com`, then you can specifiy the custom_ic_domain_name as `nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com`
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

[source,terminal]
----
NAME                        TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                     AGE
router-internal-default     ClusterIP   172.30.195.74    <none>        80/TCP,443/TCP,1936/TCP                     223d
router-nodeport-custom-ic3   NodePort    172.30.109.219   <none>        80:32432/TCP,443:31366/TCP,1936:30499/TCP   155m
----

. Use the `oc new-project` command to create a new project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project <project_name>
----

. Enter the following command to label the new namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace <project_name> <key>=<value> <1>
----
<1> Where `<key>=<value>` must match the value that you specified in the `namespaceSelector` section of your Ingress Controller CR.

. Create a new application in your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-app --image=<image_name> <1>
----
<1> An example of `<image_name>` is `quay.io/openshifttest/hello-openshift:multiarch`.

. Create a `Route` object for a service, so that the pod can use the service to expose the application external to the cluster.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc expose svc/<service_name> --hostname=<svc_name>.<project_name>.<domain_name> <1>

Reviewer 2: The hostname should match the format: `*.<domain_name>`, this <domain_name> should be the one we specified in custom ingresscontroller
```
  domain: <domain> <2>
```
So we should use dash `-` instead of dot `.` between <svc_name> and <project_name>, the correct one should be like `--hostname=<svc_name>-<project_name>.<domain_name>`
To make it more clear, maybe we could use the word `custom_ic_domain_name>` here and the definition.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

====

. Check that the route has the `Admitted` status and that it includes metadata for the custom Ingress Controller:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route/hello-openshift -o json | jq '.status.ingress
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
# ...
{
  "conditions": [
    {
      "lastTransitionTime": "2024-05-17T18:25:41Z",
      "status": "True",
      "type": "Admitted"
    }
  ],
  [
    {
      "host": "hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com",
      "routerCanonicalHostname": "router-nodeportsvc.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com",
      "routerName": "nodeportsvc", "wildcardPolicy": "None"
    }
  ],
}
----

. Update the default `IngressController` CR to prevent the default Ingress Controller from managing the `NodePort`-type `Service`. The default Ingress Controller will continue to monitor all other cluster traffic.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch --type=merge -n openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontroller/default --patch '{"spec":{"namespaceSelector":{"matchExpressions":[{"key":"<key>","operator":"NotIn","values":["<value>]}]}}}'
----

.Verification

> . Verify that the wildcard DNS record is managed by the Ingress Controller by entering the following command in your CLI.

Reviewer 2: This step is confusing, actually the wildcard DNS records of custom nodeport ingresscontroller is not managed by ingress operator, The dns records should be managed by Admin.
Just as mentioned in Prerequisites
```
* You created a wildcard DNS record.
// https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/networking/ingress-controller-dnsmgt.html (does not detail how to create the DNS)
``` 
To verify the dns working, we could use dig/nslookup tool, e.g.
```
dig +short hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com
<node_IP>
```
the node_IP should be the node that we added the label (see Line 65).

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route
----
+
.Output example
[source,terminal]
----
NAME              HOST/PORT                                             PATH   SERVICES          PORT       TERMINATION   WILDCARD 
hello-openshift   hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com          hello-openshift   8080-tcp   
----

. Check the connection of your cluster to verify that your cluster uses the IP addresses from external DNS servers for DNS resolution:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc curl hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com:<port> 

Reviewer 2: 1. It is `curl http://hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com:<port>` not `oc curl ...` 
2.  should provide description of  `<port>`
```
Port is the nodeport we get from the nodeport service, `80:32432/TCP` means we should use `32432` here.
``` 
See Line 83 and 88, `80:32432/TCP,443:31366/TCP` means for http route we should use nodeport 32432, for https should use nodeport 31366

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* You created a wildcard DNS record.
// https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/networking/ingress-controller-dnsmgt.html (does not detail how to create the DNS)

.Procedure

. Create a custom resource (CR) file for the Ingress Controller:
+
.Example of a CR file that defines information for the `IngressController` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
  kind: IngressController
  metadata:
    name: <custom_ic_name> <1>
    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  spec:
    replicas: 1
    domain: <custom_ic_domain_name> <2>
    nodePlacement:
      nodeSelector:
        matchLabels:
          <key>: <value> <3>
    namespaceSelector:
     matchLabels:
       <key>: <value> <4>
    endpointPublishingStrategy:
      type: NodePortService 
# ...
----
<1> Specify the a custom `name` for the `IngressController` CR.
<2> The DNS name that the Ingress Controller services. As an example, the default ingresscontroller domain is `apps.ipi-cluster.example.com`, so you would specify the `<custom_ic_domain_name>` as `nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com`.

> <3> Specify the label for the nodes that will include the custom Ingress Controller.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

<4> Specify the label for a set of namespaces. Substitute `<key>:<value>` with a map of key-value pairs where `<key>` is a unique name for the new label and `<value>` is its value. For example: `ingresscontroller: custom-ic`.

. Add a label to a node by using the `oc label node` command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label node <node_name> <key>=<value> <1>
----

> <1> Where `<value>` must match the key-value pair that you specified in the `nodePlacement` section of your `IngressController` CR.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

. Create the `IngressController` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <ingress_controller_cr>.yaml
----

> . Find the port for the service that was created for the `IngressController` CR:

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get svc -n openshift-ingress
----
+
.Example output that shows port `80:32432/TCP` for the `router-nodeport-custom-ic3` service
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                        TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                     AGE
router-internal-default     ClusterIP   172.30.195.74    <none>        80/TCP,443/TCP,1936/TCP                     223d
router-nodeport-custom-ic3   NodePort    172.30.109.219   <none>        80:32432/TCP,443:31366/TCP,1936:30499/TCP   155m
----

. Use the `oc new-project` command to create a new project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project <project_name>
----

> . Enter the following command to label the new namespace:

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace <project_name> <key>=<value> <1>
----

> <1> Where `<key>=<value>` must match the value that you specified in the `namespaceSelector` section of your Ingress Controller CR.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

====

. Check that the route has the `Admitted` status and that it includes metadata for the custom Ingress Controller:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route/hello-openshift -o json | jq '.status.ingress
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
# ...
{
  "conditions": [
    {
      "lastTransitionTime": "2024-05-17T18:25:41Z",
      "status": "True",
      "type": "Admitted"
    }
  ],
  [
    {
      "host": "hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com",
      "routerCanonicalHostname": "router-nodeportsvc.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com",
      "routerName": "nodeportsvc", "wildcardPolicy": "None"
    }
  ],
}
----

. Update the default `IngressController` CR to prevent the default Ingress Controller from managing the `NodePort`-type `Service`. The default Ingress Controller will continue to monitor all other cluster traffic.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch --type=merge -n openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontroller/default --patch '{"spec":{"namespaceSelector":{"matchExpressions":[{"key":"<key>","operator":"NotIn","values":["<value>]}]}}}'
----

.Verification

> . Verify that the DNS entry can route inside and outside of your cluster by entering the following command:

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ dig +short <svc_name>-<project_name>.<custom_ic_domain_name> <node_ip> <1>

Reviewer 2: The <node_ip> is the result of `dig` command, it should appear on the next line.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----
<1> Where `<node_ip>` is the node that received the label from running the `oc label node` command earlier in the procedure.

////
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route
----
+
.Output example
[source,terminal]
----
NAME              HOST/PORT                                             PATH   SERVICES          PORT       TERMINATION   WILDCARD 
hello-openshift   hello-openshift.nodeportsvc.ipi-cluster.example.com          hello-openshift   8080-tcp   
----
////

> . Check the connection of your cluster to verify that your cluster uses the IP addresses from external DNS servers for DNS resolution:

Author: :heavy_check_mark:
